# Reinforcement Learning from Accessibility Measures


This repository accompanies the paper *Science Out of Its Ivory Tower: Improving Scholarship Accessibility with 
Reinforcement Learning*.

Similar to Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF), we use reinforcement learning to enhance a 
language model's capabilities beyond the standard cross-entropy objective. 
However, unlike RLHF, which relies on a reward model to represent "human preference," we focus on document readability, 
a metric that is easier to quantify using established measurements (e.g., the Automatic Readability Index and 
Flesch-Kincaid Grade Level).
Instead of building a reward model, we guide the optimization process using heuristics such as average sentence length 
and word accessibility (defined as the natural logarithm of token occurrences per 1 billion tokens in English 
Wikipedia).
By carefully balancing these accessibility measures, our model achieved an additional improvement of three grade levels 
in readability without sacrificing faithfulness or language quality. 
The simplified abstracts generated by our model are now accessible to readers at a level equivalent to adults without a 
college degree.

We hope this work helps bridge the gap between scholarly research and a broader audience, fosters the development of 
better simplification systems, and ultimately contributes to a more informed and engaged society.


## Training Logs

Training logs of the reported runs are hosted on [WANDB](https://wandb.ai/hainingwang/Reinforcement_Learning_from_Accessibility_Measures).

## Reproduction

To reproduce the results, follow these steps:

```bash
python3.10 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### SFT and Word Accessibility Model

Refer to this [repository](https://github.com/Wang-Haining/scholarly_abstract_simplification) for details on the SFT 
and Word Accessibility Model.

### RLAM/RLARI

Refer to the 'runs' folder for training and evaluation scripts used to initiate runs on Slurm.

## Contact
hw56@indiana.edu

## License
0BSD

## Reference
TODO
